# CD4-binding obstacles in conformational transitions and allosteric communications of HIV gp120

## History

This manuscript was submitted to BBA-Biomembranes (Manuscript No.: [BBAMEM-19-314](./BBAMEM-19-314)) on September 13, 2019, but unfortunately, received a rejection decision on October 23, 2019. A completely new submission (Manuscript No.: [BBAMEM-19-483](./BBAMEM-19-483)) after addressing the concerns of both reviewers in an appropriate manner was resubmitted on December 21, 2019. 

## Abstract
As the only exposed viral protein at the membrane surface of HIV, envelope glycoprotein gp120 is responsible for recognizing host cells and mediating virus-cell membrane fusion. Available structures of gp120 indicate that it exhibits two distinct conformational states, called closed and open states. Although experimental data demonstrates that CD4 binding stabilizes open state of gp120, detailed structural dynamics and kinetics of gp120 during this process remain elusive. Here, two open-state gp120 simulation systems, one without any ligands (ligand-free) and the other complexed with CD4 (CD4-bound), were subjected to microsecond-scale molecular dynamics simulations following the conformational transitions and allosteric pathways of gp120 evaluated by using the Markov state model and a network-based method, respectively. Our results provide an atomic-resolution description of gp120 conformational transitions, suggesting that gp120 is intrinsically dynamic from the open state to closed state, whereas CD4 binding blocks these transitions. Consistent with experimental structures, five metastable conformations with different orientations of the V1/V2 region and V3 loop have been extracted. The binding of CD4 significantly enhances allosteric communications from the CD4-binding site to V3 loop and β20-21 hairpin, resulting in high-affinity interactions with coreceptors and activation of the conformational transitions switcher, respectively. This study will facilitate the structural understanding of the CD4-binding effects on conformational transitions and allosteric pathways of gp120.

！[Graph abstract](./abstract.tif))